.\" groff -t -e -mandoc -Tascii llmnr.1 | col -bx | less
.\" groff -t -e -mandoc -Thtml llmnr.1 > llmnr.html
.\" groff -t -e -mandoc -Tps llmnr.1 | ps2pdf - > llmnr.pdf
.TH LLMNR 1  "October 16, 2007" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBllmnr\fR \- simple, incomplete and incompatible sender and responder of
.SM RFC
4795
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llmnr
.I [\-p port] [\-r file] [\-i] [-d] [name [type]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Llmnr
is a partial implementation of RFC 4795. It can be run as a sender or as a responder.
If a \fIname\fR is specified, \fBllmnr\fR sends a request for that name. If a \fItype\fR
is specified it is used as the type of the request, if not, \fBA\fR is used.
The Output sintax is the same as the configuration file (see below).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fI<port>\fR
\fIPort\fR is the port to use instead of 5355.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fI<file>\fR
Requests \fBllmnr\fR to act as a responder. \fIFile\fR is the configuration
file. See bellow for the configuration syntax.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR
Interactive mode. The program waits on a prompt for user commands.
Commands has the same syntax as the program arguments and ends in a newline.
Commands are resolved in the background, returning the control to the prompt inmediately.
Output from commands has the same syntax as the configuration file (see below).
To exit interactive mode send an \fBEOF\fR.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Debug mode. Developers must use this mode to isolate users from theirs chatty debugging outputs.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE SYNTAX
The configuration file has one DNS RR per line. Lines begining with \fI#\fR are ignored.
Empty lines and lines with only spaces and/or tabs are also ignored. RR syntax is NAME, TTL,
CLASS, TYPE and RDATA separated by any number of spaces or tabs.
Supported types are \fISOA\fR, \fINS\fR, \fIA\fR, \fIPTR\fR, \fIMX\fR and \fICNAME\fR.
Llmnr uses absolute domain names in its configuration files, inputs and outputs.
The domain name passed as an argument does not need the final ".".
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Domain name resolution:
.nf
.B ; llmnr www.google.com
www.l.google.com.   200 IN  A   64.233.183.99
www.l.google.com.   200 IN  A   64.233.183.104
www.l.google.com.   200 IN  A   64.233.183.103
www.l.google.com.   200 IN  A   64.233.183.147
.fi
.PP
.TP
Mail server resolution
.nf
.B ; llmnr it.uc3m.es MX
it.uc3m.es.         100 IN  MX  6 smtp01.uc3m.es.
it.uc3m.es.         100 IN  MX  6 smtp02.uc3m.es.
it.uc3m.es.         100 IN  MX  6 smtp03.uc3m.es.
it.uc3m.es.         100 IN  MX  9 mail.rediris.es.
it.uc3m.es.         100 IN  MX  5 smtp.uc3m.es.
.fi
.PP
.TP
Responder daemon:
.nf
.B ; llmnr -r llmnr.conf
;
.fi
.TP
Configuration file example:
.nf
; cat llmnr.conf
it.uc3m.es. 200 IN A 163.117.15.1
it.uc3m.es. 100 IN MX 5 smtp.uc3m.es.
it.uc3m.es. 100 IN MX 9 mail.rediris.es.
.fi
.TP
Interactive mode on port 6666:
.nf
.B ; llmnr -p 6666 -i
llmnr> 
.fi
.PP
There is a space after ">".
.SH DIAGNOSTIC
\fBLlmnr\fR exit status will be 0 if the last request was correctly resolved, 1 if not and -1 on error.
\fBLlmnr\fR prints to standard output traces of every llmnr request it sends, of every response it recevies and each time
a RR conflict is detected. The following sintax is used for each type of trace:

.nf
#[\fItimestamp\fR] query sent [id:\fIID\fR]
#[\fItimestamp\fR] answer received from \fIIP\fR [id:\fIID\fR]
#[\fItimestamp\fR] resource record \fIRR\fR conflict with \fIIP\fR
.fi

\fITimestamps\fR use the RFC 3339 format, as in:

.nf
; date --rfc-3339=seconds
2007-10-16 12:08:02+02:00
.fi

\fIID\fR is the request id, \fIIP\fR is an ip address in dotted-decimal notation and \fIRR\fR is DNS resource record name.

Example:
.nf
#[2008-02-08 17:00:02+01:00] query sent [id: 0x23ad]
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Some forgotten UC3M student.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR services (5),
.BR date (1),
.BR named (8)
.SH STANDARDS
.B Llmnr
is based on  RFC 4795, but it is an incomplete and incompatible implementation made for didactic purposes.
.SH BUGS
More than you can imagine!
